README.md, before:

# capyexports-node-base

Node.js 22 Alpine base Docker image for capyexports projects. Built and published to Aliyun ACR (Beijing Personal) as **base-node** via GitHub Actions.

## Standard Reference

- **ACR repo name:** `base-node` (namespace: `capyexports`)
- **Base environment:** Node.js 22 (Alpine)
- **Target registry:** Aliyun ACR Beijing Personal (`crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com`)
- **Deploy node:** Volcano Engine Ubuntu instance (4C4G / 40GB disk)

## Version

**Current version:** 1.0.0

| Version | Base Image   | Notes                    |
|---------|--------------|--------------------------|
| 1.0.0   | node:22-alpine | Node 22, tz Asia/Shanghai, npmmirror, USER node |

## Usage

### ACR 操作指南（与控制台一致）

**1. 登录阿里云 Container Registry**

```bash
docker login --username=gxt4221 crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com
```

用户名：阿里云账号全名；密码：访问凭证页面设置的密码。可在 [访问凭证](https://cr.console.aliyun.com) 修改。

**2. 从 Registry 拉取镜像**

```bash
docker pull crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]
```

**3. 推送到 Registry（CI 已自动推送，本地需先登录）**

```bash
docker login --username=gxt4221 crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com
docker tag [ImageId] crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]
docker push crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]
```

**4. 专有网络（VPC）**  
从 ECS 推送时可用内网地址加速、不耗公网流量：  
`crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp-vpc.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]`

---

### Pull from Aliyun ACR (Beijing Personal)

```bash
# Login (use ACR_USERNAME / ACR_PASSWORD in GitHub Secrets; locally use your username)
docker login crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com -u YOUR_ACR_USERNAME -p YOUR_ACR_PASSWORD

# Pull latest
docker pull crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:latest

# Pull by date tag (YYYYMMDD)
docker pull crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:20250201
```

### Use in child projects (layer reuse)

**Always use `FROM` with this base image to reuse layers; do not pull the official Node image again.**

```dockerfile
# In capyexports or other sub-projects: multi-stage build
FROM crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:latest
WORKDIR /app
COPY --chown=node:node . .
RUN npm ci --omit=dev
USER node
CMD ["node", "index.js"]
```

### Build locally

```bash
docker build -t base-node:local .
```

### Run

```bash
docker run -it base-node:local
```

## CI/CD

- **Workflow:** `.github/workflows/build-base.yml`
- **Trigger:** Only when `Dockerfile` or `.github/workflows/**` changes (path filter).
- **Tags:** Pushed as `:latest` and `:${{ date }}` (YYYYMMDD).
- **Secrets:** Use `ACR_USERNAME`, `ACR_PASSWORD`, and `ACR_NAMESPACE` in repo secrets (no hardcoded credentials).
- **Cache:** GitHub Actions cache for faster rebuilds.

## 40GB disk constraint (deploy node)

- **Log limit:** In `docker-compose.yml` or `daemon.json`, set log driver with `max-size: 20m` for all containers.
- **Layer reuse:** In all sub-projects (e.g. capyexports), use `FROM [ACR_BASE_IMAGE_URL]` so layers are reused and the official Node image is not pulled again.
- **Cleanup:** At the end of deploy scripts, run `docker image prune -f` to free disk space.

## File layout

```
.
├── .github/workflows/build-base.yml   # GitHub Actions workflow
├── Dockerfile                         # Base image definition (Node 22 Alpine)
├── .dockerignore                      # Build context exclusions
└── README.md                          # This file
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Build failure:** Check ACR login (`ACR_USERNAME` / `ACR_PASSWORD`) and network access to `crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com`.
- **Adding a new project:** Use a multi-stage build and `FROM` this base image as above.

## License

See repository license.

Commit message:

Update documentation for Docker and Nginx configurations, emphasizing the use of Organization secrets for sensitive information. Introduce new rules for demo project integration and Nginx gateway setup, ensuring compliance with architecture standards.

README.md, after:

# capyexports-node-base

Node.js 22 Alpine base Docker image for capyexports projects. Built and published to Aliyun ACR (Beijing Personal) as **base-node** via GitHub Actions.

## Standard Reference

- **ACR repo name:** `base-node` (namespace: `capyexports`)
- **Base environment:** Node.js 22 (Alpine)
- **Target registry:** Aliyun ACR Beijing Personal (`crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com`)
- **Deploy node:** Volcano Engine Ubuntu instance (4C4G / 40GB disk)

## Version

**Current version:** 1.0.0

| Version | Base Image   | Notes                    |
|---------|--------------|--------------------------|
| 1.0.0   | node:22-alpine | Node 22, tz Asia/Shanghai, npmmirror, USER node |

## Usage

### ACR 操作指南（与控制台一致）

**1. 登录阿里云 Container Registry**

```bash
docker login --username=gxt4221 crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com
```

用户名：阿里云账号全名；密码：访问凭证页面设置的密码。可在 [访问凭证](https://cr.console.aliyun.com) 修改。

**2. 从 Registry 拉取镜像**

```bash
docker pull crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]
```

**3. 推送到 Registry（CI 已自动推送，本地需先登录）**

```bash
docker login --username=gxt4221 crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com
docker tag [ImageId] crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]
docker push crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]
```

**4. 专有网络（VPC）**  
从 ECS 推送时可用内网地址加速、不耗公网流量：  
`crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp-vpc.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:[镜像版本号]`

---

### Pull from Aliyun ACR (Beijing Personal)

```bash
# Login (CI uses Organization secrets: ACR_USERNAME, ACR_PASSWORD; locally use your username)
docker login crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com -u YOUR_ACR_USERNAME -p YOUR_ACR_PASSWORD

# Pull latest
docker pull crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:latest

# Pull by date tag (YYYYMMDD)
docker pull crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:20250201
```

### Use in child projects (layer reuse)

**Always use `FROM` with this base image to reuse layers; do not pull the official Node image again.**

```dockerfile
# In capyexports or other sub-projects: multi-stage build
FROM crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com/capyexports/base-node:latest
WORKDIR /app
COPY --chown=node:node . .
RUN npm ci --omit=dev
USER node
CMD ["node", "index.js"]
```

### Build locally

```bash
docker build -t base-node:local .
```

### Run

```bash
docker run -it base-node:local
```

## CI/CD

- **Workflow:** `.github/workflows/build-base.yml`
- **Trigger:** Only when `Dockerfile` or `.github/workflows/**` changes (path filter).
- **Tags:** Pushed as `:latest` and `:${{ date }}` (YYYYMMDD).
- **Secrets:** Use **Organization secrets**: `ACR_USERNAME`, `ACR_PASSWORD`, `ACR_NAMESPACE`. Configure under **Organization → Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions**. Grant this repository access to the secrets. No hardcoded credentials.
- **Cache:** GitHub Actions cache for faster rebuilds.

## 40GB disk constraint (deploy node)

- **Log limit:** In `docker-compose.yml` or `daemon.json`, set log driver with `max-size: 20m` for all containers.
- **Layer reuse:** In all sub-projects (e.g. capyexports), use `FROM [ACR_BASE_IMAGE_URL]` so layers are reused and the official Node image is not pulled again.
- **Cleanup:** At the end of deploy scripts, run `docker image prune -f` to free disk space.

## File layout

```
.
├── .github/workflows/build-base.yml   # GitHub Actions workflow
├── Dockerfile                         # Base image definition (Node 22 Alpine)
├── .dockerignore                      # Build context exclusions
└── README.md                          # This file
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Build failure:** Check Organization secrets (`ACR_USERNAME` / `ACR_PASSWORD`) and that this repo has access, and network access to `crpi-5nqoro6hoopis4cp.cn-beijing.personal.cr.aliyuncs.com`.
- **Adding a new project:** Use a multi-stage build and `FROM` this base image as above.

## License

See repository license.
